EcoChefFrequently Asked QuestionsWhat does it do?Calculates time for an oven or grill to heat (or cool) to a given temperature, allowing user to start a timer and estimate progress of temperature to the desired set point. You can go away and the app will send you a notification when it thinks your oven or grill is ready.Provides an array of timers to keep track of food cooking or grilling, including separate timers for each side.How does the oven/grill preheat prediction work?We use a first-order linear thermodynamic model to quickly estimate the time required to go from one temperature to another. Glad you asked?Whatever. That sounds stupid.It is, but it works well enough and it's about the right amount of fidelity given how hard it is to account for all the unknowns. Where do the models come from?We took time versus temperature measurements of several real ovens and grills, fitting our model parameters to the data observed.How accurate is it?Within less than a minute on the systems we test. However, all ovens differ, ambient conditions matters, and so your mileage may vary, perhaps greatly. However, the system will adapt and learn your oven over time if you give it feedback by telling it when the oven actually finishes preheating.How do I "train" the app to learn my oven or grill?If the oven completes preheating before the time goes off, hit the "done" button in the app and the app will record the data and adapt its model. If the oven isn't yet done preheating when the timer goes off, swipe up on the notification and select "Why did you build this?It's wasteful to leave an oven on longer than is necessary. It wastes energy to keep the oven hot, and often wastes energy as the house needs more air conditioning in the warm months to offset the heat from the oven. It's also nice to be able to have an estimate of when a grill or oven will be preheated instead of just watching the blinking light.Are you collecting any personal data?No. The documentation (i.e. this screen) is web-based, so we see the IP address from which you are connecting (as does any website, by necessity) but with no other identifying information included.